>> Ifill: WE REMEMBER THOSE WHO
FOUGHT, SERVED AND DIED FOR OUR
COUNTRY ON THIS MEMORIAL DAY...
GOOD EVENING...
I'M GWEN IFILL.
RAISING FEARS THAT COUNTRY COULD
BE PULLED INTO THE CIVIL WAR IN
NEIGHBORING SYRIA.
MARGARET WARNER IS ON THE GROUND
IN BEIRUT WITH THE LATEST.
>> Brown: WE HAVE A REPORT FROM
BANGLADESH.
THE WORKERS ARE DEMANDING BETTER
FACTORY CONDITIONS AFTER LAST
MONTH'S BUILDING COLLAPSE THAT
KILLED MORE THAN A THOUSAND
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: IN THE THIRD IN OUR
SERIES ABOUT IMMIGRATION REFORM,
RAY SUAREZ EXPLORES THE ROLE
LOW-SKILLED WORKERS PLAY IN THE
ECONOMY.
>> Brown: WE LOOK AT HONOR
FLIGHTS.
THE TRADITION THAT
SUAREZ EXPLORES THE ROLE LOW
SKILLED WORKERS PLAY IN THE
ECONOMY...
>> Brown: WE LOOK AT "HONOR
FLIGHTS," A TRADITION THAT
BRINGS WORLD WAR TWO VETERANS TO
WASHINGTON, D.C. AND OFFERS THEM
HERAO'S WELCOME.
>> I WAS SPEECHLESS.
THEY DIDN'T PROMISE US THIS
BEFORE WE CAME FOREVER EVER I'LL
BE GRATEFUL.
IT IS SOMETHING REALLY
SOMETHING.
SNEN WE EXAMINE THE EVOLVING
ROLE OF PRESIDENT AS CONSOLER IN
CHIEF TRAVELING BEYOND THE OVAL
OFFICE TO COMFORT COMMUNITIES
STRUCK BY DISASTER AND TRAGEDY.
>> Brown: JUDY WOOD ROUGH TALKS
TO JOURNALIST AND AUTHOR ROBERT
KAISER ABOUT HIS ACCOUNT FOR THE
FIGHT OVER FINANCIAL REFORM AND
WHAT IT SAYS ABOUT CONGRESSIONAL
GRIDLOCK.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE TRADITION OF
MEMORIAL DAY PLAYED OUT TODAY.
IT WAS A DAY TO REMEMBER THAT
SOME AMERICANS STILL VENTURE
INTO HARM'S WAY AND END UP
MAKING THE GREATEST SACRIFICE.
>> PRESENT!
Ifill: IT WAS A DAY FOR
TIME-HONORED OBSERVANCE
BEGINNING AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL
CEMETERY WHERE THE PRESIDENT
LAID A WREATH AT THE TOMB OF THE
UNKNOWNS AMID SOMBER SILENCE.
THE HUSH OF THE CEREMONY GAVE
WAY TO TRIBUTES TO THOSE WHO
HAVE SERVED AND DIED.EFENSE SEC.
>> THE MEMORIES OF AMERICA'S
HEROES LAID TO REST HERE AT
ARLINGTON AND AMERICAN
CEMETERIES AROUND THE WORLD ARE
KEPT ALIVE BY FAMILIES AND
COMMUNITIES ACROSS OUR GREAT
LAND.
THIS MEMORIAL DAY WE HONOR THOSE
FAMILIES WHO ARE HEROES LEFT
BEHIND.
WE HONOR THEM IN AN APPRECIATION
FOR THE SACRIFICES THEY HAVE
ENDUREDDED.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA
CAUTIONED THAT THE NATION IS
STILL AT WAR, BUT HE SAID IT HAS
BECOME HARDER...
>> TODAY MOST AMERICANS ARE NOT
DIRECTLY TOUCHED BY WAR.
AS A CONSEQUENCE, NOT ALL
AMERICANS MAY ALWAYS SEE OR
FULLY GRASP THE DEPTH OF
SACRIFICE.
THE PROFOUND COSTS THAT ARE MADE
IN OUR NAME.
RIGHT NOW AS WE SPEAK, EVERY DAY
OUR TROOPS AND OUR MILITARY
FAMILIES UNDERSTAND THIS AND
THEY MENTION TO ME THEIR CONCERN
ABOUT WHETHER THE COUNTRY FULLY
APPRECIATES WHAT'S HAPPENING.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT AND
MRS. OBAMA ALSO TOURED
ARLINGTON'S SECTION 60 WHERE
TROOPS KILLED IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN ARE BURIED.
THEY MET WITH FAMILY MEMBERS.
OVERSEAS U.S. TROOPS SERVING IN
THE HORN OF AFRICA REMEMBERED
THEIR FALLEN COMRADES WITH A
12-HOUR OVERNIGHT RELAY RACE IN
DJIBOUTI.
IT ENDED WITH A FLAG-RAISING AT
THE CAMP'S MORNING REVELE.
ELSEWHERE, AMERICANS GATHERED
FOR THEIR OWN MEMORIAL DAY
REMEMBRANCES FROM A PARADE IN
ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS, TO
THIS CEREMONY IN RALEIGH, NORTH
CAROLINA.
>> I REALLY THINK MEMORIAL DAY
IS FOR THOSE WHO FOUGHT AND DI
DIED, AND ALSO THE ONE WHO CAME
BACK.
THEY DIDN'T GIVE IT ALL BUT THEY
GAVE A LOT.
>> Ifill: STILL OTHERS SPENT THE
HOLIDAY WITH FAMILY AND FRIENDS.
INCLUDING MANY WHO TREKKED TO
THE JERSEY SORE,H NOW BACK IN
BUSINESS AFTER LAST YEAR'S
POUNDING FROM HURRICANE SANDY.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSUR, HOMARGARET WARNER ON THE
GROUND IN BEIRUT.
THE FIGHT FOR BETTER WORKING
CONDITIONS IN BANGLADESH.
INSIDE THE IMMIGRATION DEBE,AT
HONOR FLIGHTS FOR WORLD WAR II
VETS, THE PRESIDENT AS CONSOLER
IN CHIEF.
AND BEHIND THE SCENES OF
FINANCIAL REFORM.
BUT FIRST THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> CAR BOMBINGS SWEPT THROUGH
BAGHDAD KILLING AT LEAST 66
PEOPLE IN IRAQ'S LATEST WAVE OF
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE.
MORE THAN 350 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
IN THE PAST TWO WEEKS.
TODAY IT LEAST 11 EXPLOSIONS
TORE APART BUSY MARKETS AND
SHOPPING AREAS IN THE CAPITAL
CITY.
THE TARGETS WERE MOSTLY IN
SHIITE NEIGHBORHOODS.
IN BRITAIN POLICE ARRESTED A
10th SUSPECT IN THE MURDER
OF A BRITISH SOLDIER IN LOANED
AND AS TENSIONS OVER THE
KILLINGS CONTINUED TO GROW.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM ANDY
DAVIES OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> Reporter: OUTSIDE THE
BARRACKS THIS AFTERNOON IN SOUTH
LONDON, RIDING IN YET ANOTHER
GROUP HERE TO LEAVE THEIR
IMPRINT ON THE GROWING BANK OF
FLAGS AND FLOWERS WHICH BORDER
STREET WHERE RE LIG BEE DIED
FIVE DAYS AGO.
FROM A GROUP CALLING THEMSELVES
AFRICANS FOR HEROES TO A
MOTORCYCLING RIDERS ASSOCIATION,
THE PUBLIC YOU'LL GEES COME ONE
AFTER ANOTHER.
>> LET'S HEAR IT FOR LEE RIGBY.
(CHEERING).
>> Reporter: ON A BANK HOLIDAY
MONDAY IT IS STRIKING JUST HOW
MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN COMING
HERE TO LEAVE FLOWERS, READ
MESSAGES AND TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS.
THE MOOD, AS YOU WOULD EXPECT
QUIET AND RESPECTFUL AND WHAT AN
TEN MILES AWAY IN THE CENTER OF
LONDON.
>> A SOLDIER HAS BEEN MURDERED.
THAT'S WHY I'M HERE.
>> SO DECLARED KEVIN CAROL AS HE
AND MORE THAN 700 SUPPORTERS OF
THE ENGLISH DEFENSE LEAGUE LINED
UP AGAINST SEVERAL HUNDRED
COUNTERDEMONSTRATORS.
TODAY'S ARENA: DOWNING STREET.
A NEW STAGE FOR AN OLD STORY.
THE FALLOUT FROM LAST
WEDNESDAY'S KILLING HAS NOT BEEN
CONFINED TO LONDON.
THIS MOSQUE HAS REPORTED TWO
ATTACKS IN THE LAST FIVE DAYS.
THE LATEST INVOLVING SUSPECTED
ARSON.
>> WE BECAME REALLY WORRIED
ABOUT OUR CHILDREN, OUR
FAMILIES, OUR PEOPLE WHO ATTEND
THE MOSQUE BECAUSE OF SOME
PEOPLE WHO DID NOT UNDERSTAND
ISLAM AND WHO DID NOT UNDERSTAND
THEY WOULD NOT LINK SUCH A CRIME
WHICH WE CONDEMN WITH ISLAM OR
WITH MUSLIMS.
>> MEANWHILE THE POLICE CONTINUE
TO MAKE ARRESTS AS THEY
INVESTIGATE THE MURDER OF RIG
BEE.
TEN ARRESTS SO FAR.
A MAN FROM SOUTHEAST LONDON IS
HELD ON SUSPICION OF CONSPIRACY
TO COMMIT MURDER.
>> DEMOLITION CREWS IN
WASHINGTON STATE BEGAN CLEARING
THE REMAINS OF A WRECKED BRIDGE
TODAY.
THE SPAN CUT INTERSTATE 5
BETWEEN SEATTLE AND CANADA.
WORK AT THE SITE STARTED BEFORE
DAWN THIS MORNING.
A CRANE LIFTED OUT MANGLED
PIECES OF STEEL.
THE WRECKAGE HAS TO BE REMOVED
BEFORE REPAIRS CAN BEGIN.
THE BRIDGE COLLAPSED AFTER BEING
HIT BY A TRUCK HAULING AN
OVERSIZED LOAD.
FEDERAL SAFETY REGULATORS NOW
SAY THEY WANT TO KNOW IF
HUNDREDS OF SIMILAR BRIDGES
MIGHT BE AT RISK.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: WE RETURN TO THE
BLOODY CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA.
TODAY U.S. SENATOR JOHN McCAIN
BECAME THE HIGHEST-RANKING
AMERICAN OFFICIAL TO ENTER SYRIA
SINCE THE START OF FIGHTING
THERE.
HE CROSSED THE TURKISH BORDER,
ACCOMPANIED BY A FREE SYRIAN
ARMY GENERAL.
MEANWHILE A FIERCE BATTLE
CONTINUES IN THE STRATEGICALLY
CRITICAL TOWN OF QUSAIR WITH
HEZBOLLAH SENDING FIGHTERS FROM
ITS HOME BASE IN LEBANON TO
SUPPORT THE REGIME OF SYRIAN
PRESIDENT ASSAD.
YESTERDAY TWO ROCKETS EXPLODED
IN AN AREA OF BEIRUT CONTROLLED
BY HEZBOLLAH.
THAT RAISED NEW CONCERNS ABOUT
THE SPREAD OF THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT INTO THE LARGER REGION.
MARGARET WARNER IS IN BEIRUT AND
WE SPOKE EARLIER TODAY.
MARGARET, LET'S BEGIN WITH THOSE
ROCKET ATTACKS IN SOUTHERN
BEIRUT.
HOW MUCH IS KNOWN AUT WBOHO
MIGHT BE BEHIND THEM AND WHY NOW
IN THESE HEZBOLLAH-CONTROLLED
AREAS?
>> WELL, SINCE THIS IS LEBANON,
JEFF.
THE LAND OF MANY CONSPIRACY
THEORIES, THERE ARE A LOT OF
CONSPIRACY THEORIES ABOUT THIS.
FROM THE FORCES ALLIED WITH THE
SUNNI REBELS IN SYRIA WHO ARE
UPSET ABOUT WHAT THE HEZBOLLAH
LEADER VOWED ON SATURDAY THAT
HEZBOLLAH IS GOING TO FIGHT ON
THE SIDE OF SYRIA TO THE END.
THAT TO SYRIAN REGIME.
TO, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE OTHER
PEOPLE IN THE STREET WHO WILL
SAY IT'S THE ISRAELIS.
ONE PERSON WHO HAS TALKED TO
INVESTIGATORS SAID THEY ARE
LOOKING HARD AT A RADICAL SUNNI
FACTION, A COUPLE OF THEM, IN
PALESTINIAN CAMPS THAT HAVE BEEN
HERE FOR VERY LONG TIME.
AND THERE ARE SOME GROUPS THAT
ARE THOUGHT TO BE ALLIED WITH
EITHER AL QAEDA OR THE FRONT
WHICH IS THE JIHADY REBEL GROUP
IN SYRIA.
IT WILL BE VERY HARD TO TELL,
HOWEVER.
I WAS... DIPLOMATIC SOURCES TOLD
ME TODAY THAT THE 107 MILLIMETRE
ROCKETS WERE SET ON DETONATORS
AND TIMERS SO THAT THE
PERPETRATORS COULD BE LONG GONE.
THEY WENT FROM AN UNINHABITED
AREA IN THE HILLS BUT EVERYONE,
WHATEVER THEIR THEORY HERE,
AGREES THAT IT WAS A RESPONSE TO
WHAT THE MAN SAID ON SATURDAY
AND TO THE PRESENCE AND GROWING
PRESENCE OF HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS
IN SYRIA FIGHTING ON THE SIDE OF
BASHAR ASSAD.
>> Brown: THAT BEING LEBANON, AS
YOU SAID, WITH ALL OF ITS
HISTORY, WHAT HAS BEEN THE
REACTION AND HOW MUCH
PARTICULARLY VIS-A-VIS RAISING
OLD CONFLICTS, OLD SECTARIAN
TENSIONS?
>> Warner: EXACTLY, JEFF.
THIS IS A COUNTRY DIVIDED AMONG
SUNNIES, SHE AS AND CHRISTIANES.
THEY HAD A BLOODY BITTER CIVIL
WAR FOR 15 YEARS THAT ENDED IN
1990.
THEY ENDED UP WITH A FRAGILE,
COBBLED-TOGETHER POLITICAL
SYSTEM THAT EVERYONE GETS A
LITTLE SHARE.
BUT THE TENSIONS REMAIN.
AND THE NEW DIVIDING LINE REALLY
IS, ARE YOU FOR OR AGAINST
ASSAD?
THE ASSAD REGIME.
HEZBOLLAH AND MOST SHIAS DO
SUPPORT THE ASSAD REGIME.
MOST SUNNIES SUPPORT THE
OPPOSITION.
THE CHRISTIANES ARE SPLIT.
AND THE FEAR HERE IS THAT AS
PEOPLE SAID TO ME ON THE STREET,
YOU KNOW, THIS COULD REOPEN...
THE TENSIONS ARE ALREADY THERE,
THAT IT COULD REALLY INFLATE
THEM, INCITE THEM.
THEY HAVE HAD FIGHTING, OF
COURSE, IN TRIPOLI, AS YOU KNOW,
BETWEEN SUNNI AND ALAWITES AND
ALSO IN THE BACAH VALLEY.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THERE'S
BEEN ANY BLOW-BACK IN THE
CAPITAL BEIRUT.
>> Brown: NOW, WE'VE MENTIONED
THIS SPEECH ON SATURDAY BY THE
HEZBOLLAH LEADER NASRALLAH.
IN FACT, HEZBOLLAH'S SUPPORT FOR
THE ASSAD GOVERNMENT IN SYRIA
HAS BECOME EVER MORE IMPORTANT
IN THIS CONFLICT, RIGHT?
>> RIGHT, JEFF.
AT FIRST HEZBOLLAH LEADERSHIP
KEPT SAYING, WELL, THESE ARE
JUST POPULAR COMMITTEES OF
COMMITTED SHIA WHO DON'T LIKE
WHAT'S GOING ON IN SYRIA, BUT
SATURDAY NASRALLAH, WE WERE AT
THIS SPEECH WHICH HE DIDN'T
ACTUALLY SHOW UP.
IT'S A BIG TELEVISION SCREEN IN
SOME 60,000 PEOPLE IN THE BACAH
VALLEY.
HE MADE IT CLEAR THAT IT'S
OFFICIAL HEZBOLLAH MILITIA
POLICY THAT THEY'LL STAY IN THIS
FIGHT UNTIL THEY FEEL THEY ARE
ASSURED THAT ASSAD IS GOING TO
HOLD ON TOOWE PR.
IT IS WHERE... WHERE THEY'RE
FIGHTING IS A VERY IMPORTANT
CORRIDOR.
IT SORT OF HUGS THE LEBANESE
BORDER.
IT'S THE CORRIDOR THAT LINKS
DAMASCUS TO THE COAST, AND
THOUGH THE COAST ISN'T ENTIRELY
AL OWE WIDE WHICH IS ASSAD'S
SHIA SECT, IT IS THE AREA THAT
IS BELIEVED TO BE SORT OF
ASSAD'S PLAN-B.
HE'S LOST CONTROL OF A LOT OF
COUNTRY BUT THAT'S THE AREA
WHERE IT'S BELIEVED HE WOULD TRY
TO CONSOLIDATE POWER AND THEN
PERHAPS GO BACK AND RETAKE
AREAS.
BUT THIS CORRIDOR ALL ALONG THE
LEBANESE BORDER IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
AND HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS ARE OVER
THERE.
NO ONE KNOWS FOR SURE, BUT I
HEARD FROM FIGHTERS, REBEL
FIGHTERS ON THE GROUND WHO HAD
COME IN TO LEBANON YESTERDAY,
THAT THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF
THEM.
>> Brown: THIS INCLUDES,
MARGARET, THAT BATTLE THAT'S
ONGOING RIGHT NOW AND IS
CONSIDERED QUITE A KEY ONE IN
QUSAIR.
>> Warner: YES.
THE SOUND OF QUSAIR IS KEY IN
THAT CORRIDOR.
IT'S ON THE DAMASCUS HIGHWAY TO
THE CITY OF HOAMS AND TO THE
COAST.
AND WHAT THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY,
THE SORT OF MODERATE RESISTANCE
HAS BEEN DOING IS USING AREAS IN
LEBANON TO, SAY, BRING THEIR
FAMILIES TO SAFETY IF THEY CAN
GET OUT.
WE TALKED TO A COUPLE OF
FIGHTERS W HAHOD DONE EXACTLY
THAT YESTERDAY.
THEY SAID THEY ARE... THE REBELS
HAVE HELD THAT TOWN FOR QUITE A
WHILE.
BUT THEY ARE BEING POUNDED AND
POUNDED FROM THE AIR.
IT'S REALLY HOLLOWED OUT, BUT
THERE ARE STILL PROBABLY TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS THERE.
I SAID TO THIS YOUNG MAN, HOW
ARE THEY SURVIVING?
HE SAID WE'VE DUG SHELTERS UNDER
THE BUILDINGS THAT REMAIN BUT
THIS IS WHERE ASSAD HAS TURNED
THE TIDE IN THE AREA AROUND
QUSAIR.
THESE PEOPLE ARE GETTING ARE
REALLY GETTING CUT OFF.
I DID ASK HOW DID HE KNOW?
HE SAID MOST OF THE FIGHTERS
THAT THEY DO SEE ON GROUND FROM
THE ASSAD FORCES ARE HEZBOLLAH.
I SAID HOW DO YOU KNOW?
AND HE SAID, WELL, FIRST OF ALL
THEY HAVE UNIFORMS BUT THEY HAVE
M16 RIFLES,HE  SAID.
NOT EVEN THE SYRIAN ARMY HAS
M16s.
HE SAID THEY WEAR THESE
UNIFORMS, THEY COVER THEIR FACES
AND THERE'S NO DOUBT THEY'RE
HEZBOLLAH.
>> Brown: MARGARET WARNER IN
BEIRUT, TAKE CARE.
WE WILL LOOK FOR YOUR REPORTING
IN THE DAYS TO COME.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Warner: THANKS, JEFF.
Ifill: LATE DID BRITISH
FOREIGN SECRETARY ANNOUNCED THE
EUROPEAN UNION TALKS ON SYRIA
FAILED TO REACH AN AGREEMENT
EFFECVELYTI LIFTING THE BAN ON
ARMING THE
HE SAYS BRITAIN HAS NO IMMEDIATE
PLANS TO SHIP THEM WEAPONS.
>> Brown: AND NOW AN UPDATE FROM
BANG BANGLADESH WHERE MORE THAN
A THOUSAND GARMENT WORKERS DIED
WHEN THEIR FACTORY COLLAPSED
LAST MONTH.
THAT TRAGEDY FOCUSED ATTENTION
ON DANGEROUS CONDITIONS FOR
PEOPLE WHO MAKE CLOTHES FOR
WESTERN RETAILERS.
IN THE AFTER MATH SOME WORKERS
ARE WALKING OFF THEIR JOBS IN
PROTEST.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: BEYOND THE SMOKE
STACKS OF THESE BRICK FACTORIES,
AMID AN INDUSTRIAL LANDSCAPE
LOST IN TIME, YOU FIND A TOWN
WHICH IS HOME TO SCORES OF
CLOTHING FACTORIES, SERVING SOME
OF THE WORLD'S BEST KNOWN HIGH
STREET BRANDS.
THE POLICE SEEMED TO BE
EXPECTING A RIOT.
AND THEY ARE EVERYWHERE.
PATROLLING THE MAIN HIGHWAY AND
GUARDING EVERY FACTORY GATE.
AGAINST ATTACKS BY THE WORKERS
SUPPOSED TO BE MAKING CLOTHES
INSIDE.
MID MORNING AND THOUSANDS OF
WORKERS ARE WORKING OFF THE JOB.
THEY MAKE CLOTHES EXCLUSIVELY
FOR H AND M THE SWEDISH RETAIL
GIANT IS BANGLADESH'S BIGGEST
CLOTHING BUYER.
AND THIS IS ONE OF MORE THAN 20
FACTORY CLOSURES IN THIS TOWN
BECAUSE OF UNREST.
IT WAS THE COLLAPSE OF THIS
FACTORY COMPLEX IN THE CAPITAL
WHICH HAS LEFT MILLIONS IN
BANGLADESH'S CLOTHING INDUSTRY
ANGRY AND AFRAID.
WELL OVER A THOUSAND DIED HERE
LAST MONTH.
IT'S THE BIGGEST INDUSTRIAL
DISASTER OF THE AGE.
IN THIS TOWN, WORKERS TOLD US
ENOUGH WAS ENOUGH.
"WE'RE NOT SAFE," SAID THIS
MAN," AND THAT'S WHY WE DECIDED
TO COME OUT."
>> WE KEPT THE MONEY.
NOT ENOUGH.
>> THE FACTORY ITSELF SAYS IT
PAYS ABOVE THE INDUSTRY'S
MINIMUM WAGE WHICH IS AROUND $40
A MONTH, THE LOWEST IN THE WORLD
THOUGH THE GOVERNMENT HAS
PLEDGED TO RAISE IT.
>> WE ARE WORKING ONLY FOR H AND
M.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE FACTORY
MANAGERS TOLD ME HIS CLOTHES
WENT TO H AND M IN AMERICA AND
25 COUNTRIES ACROSS EUROPE.
HE SAID HE HAD SENT HIS WORKERS
HOME BECAUSE THEY WERE
FRIGHTENED BY LOCAL UNREST.
AND THAT HE WOULD LOVE TO GIVE
THEM A PAY RAISE IF ONLY HE
COULD.
>> OUR INTERNATIONAL BUYERS,
THEY'RE BARGAINING WITH ONE
THING.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE UNDER BIG
PRESSURE.
>> OUR NEIGHBOR COUNTRY INDIA,
WE ALREADY LOST SO MANY ORDERS.
THOSE ORDERS ARE GOING TO INDIA.
THAT'S WHY WE CAN'T INCREASE OUR
SALARIES AS THEY EXPECT.
>> Reporter: AFTERWARDS HE GAVE
ME A TOUR OF HIS ABANDONED
FACTORY FLOOR.
WHERE H AND M'S CLOTHES WERE
DISCARDED MID STITCH.
"OUR FACTORY IS VERY SAFE," HE
SAID.
BUT WHEN HE TRIED TO OPEN THE
DOOR OF A FIRE ESCAPE IT WAS
PADLOCKED SHUT.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, H AND M
JOINED OTHER MULTINATIONALS IN
SIGNINGP TO U A NEW AGREEMENT ON
FIRE AND BUILDING
IN A STATEMENT, H AND M TOLD US.
>> WE SUPPORT THE WORKERS IN
THEIR STRUGGLE FOR HIGHER WAGES.
WE HAVE A REGULAR PRESENCE THAT
SUPPLIES FACTORIES.
THE LAST FULL ORDER IN THE
MENTIONED FACTORY WAS IN APRIL
OF 2013.
FROM OUR ORDER PROTOCOL WE CAN
TELL THAT THE FACTORY HAS
FOLLOWED OUR CODE OF CONDUCT IN
REGARDS TO WAGES AND FIRE
SAFETY.
>> Reporter: TEN MINUTES DOWN
THE ROAD THIS IS WHAT REMAINS OF
TAZRINE FASHIONS.
MUCH OF IT WAS BUILT ILLEGALLY.
THE WORKERS SAY THE FIRE EXITS
WERE PADLOCKED SHUT AND 112 OF
THEM BURNT TO DEATH DURING A
FIRE IN LAST NOVEMBER.
HET WORKERS HERE ARE SQUEEZED BY
FACTORY OWNERS WHO NEED TO MAKE
A PROFIT AND BY CONSUMERS AND
HIGH STREET BRANDS OVERSEAS WHO
WANT CHEAP, CHEAP PRICES.
UNTIL THE RULES OF THIS SUPPLY
CHAIN CHAIN CHANGE, NOTHING FOR
THESE PEOPLE IS LIKELY TO CHANGE
VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: NEXT A LOOK AT SOME
LOW-SKILLED WORKERS IN THIS
COUNTRY AS WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES ON THE IMMIGRATION BILL
NOW MAKING ITS WAY THROUGH THE
U.S. SENATE.
IT'S PART OF OUR ONGOING FOCUS
"INSIDE IMMIGRATION REFORM."
RAY SWAWRERS HAS TONIGHT'S
CONVERSATION.
>> Suarez: THE U.S. HAS USED
UNSKILLED IMMIGRANTS THROUGHOUT
ITS HISTORY.
THEY WORKED IN FACTORIES, ON
FARMS, IN HOTELS AND
RESTAURANTS.
AND OVER TIME THOSE WORKERS
COULD SEE THEIR OPPORTUNITIES
CHANGE AS THEIR FAMILIES' LIFE
CHANCES IMPROVE.
FOR TWO DIFFERENT VIEWS ON
IMMIGRATION AND THE LOW-SKILLED
LABOR FORCE IN HISTORY AND
MOVING FORWARD, WE TURN TO MAY
NYE, A HISTORY AND
ASIAN-AMERICAN STUDIES PROFESSOR
AT COLOMBIA UNIVERSITY AND CAROL
SWAIN PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE AND LAW AT VANDERBILT
UNIVERSITY.
PROFESSOR NYE, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
>> AS WE LOOK AT THE LONG ARC OF
AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAW HAVE
THERE EVER BEEN ATTEMPTS TO
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN HIGH-SKILDLE
AND LOW-SKILLED LABOR?
>> WELL THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION
BECAUSE IT'S ACTUALLY A FAIRLY
RECENT PHENOMENON.
IN THE PAST WE ACTUALLY HAD NO
RESTRICTIONS ON IMMIGRATION SO
ANYBODY WHO WANTED TO COME JUST
CAME.
AND THEY FOUND WORK AND AT THE
TURN OF THE LAST CENTURY 100
YEARS AGO MOST OF THE IMMIGRANTS
WHO CAME ACTUALLY WERE IN THE
LOWER-SKILLED STRATA.
>> Suarez: ON BALANCE IN YOUR
VIEW, AS A HISTORIAN, HAVE THEY
DONE WELL AND HAS THE COUNTRY
DONE WELL FOR THEIR PRESENCE?
>> WELL, THE FIRST GENERATION OF
IMMIGRANTS THEN, AS NOW, USUALLY
ARE WORKING IN THE LOWER-SKILLED
STRATA OF THE WORK FORCE.
OVER TIME THEY TEND TO MOVE UP.
SOME OF THEM MOVE UP.
AND THEIR CHILDREN TEND TO MOVE
UP.
SO THIS IS A GENERAL PATTERN I
THINK YOU COULD SAY IN AMERICAN
HISTORY, YES.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR SWAIN, AS
WE DEBATE HOW TO MOVE FORWARD
AND WHETHER TO REWRITE AMERICAN
IMMIGRATION LAW, IS TODAY
DIFFERENT FROM THE WAY WE MIGHT
HAVE HAD THIS CONVERSATION
DURING THE YEARS OF THELLIS E
ISLAND GENERATION'S COMING TO
THE UNITED STATES?
>> IT'S VERY DIFFERENT BECAUSE
WHERE WE ARE TODAY WE HAVE A
HUGE POPULATION OF AMERICAN
CITIZENS THAT ARE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN, HISPANIC AND
IMMIGRANTS THAT ARE UNEMPLOYED.
THEY'RE NOT DOING WELL.
AND WE DON'T HAVE THE SAME
NATIONAL GROWTH THAT WE HAD
DURING THE TURN OF THE CENTURY.
WE NO LONGER LIVE IN A WORLD
WHERE PARENTS CAN EXPECT THEIR
CHILDREN TO DO BETTER THAN THEY
DID.
AND WE ALSO ARE FACING THE FACT
THAT AMERICA WILL SOON BECOME
MAJORITY MINORITY IN THE NOT DOO
DISTANT FUTURE.
I BELIEVE THAT ALL CHANGES THE
CALCULUS.
>> Suarez: WHO BENEFITS AND WHO
LOSES WHEN WE ALLOW LARGE
NUMBERS OF NEW PEOPLE TO COME IN
AS LEGAL RESIDENTS WHO ARE
EITHER LOWLY EDUCATED OR LOW
SKILLED?
>> I THINK THE GROUP THAT IS
MOST HARMED ARE THOSE AMERICANS
THAT HAVE HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATIONS
OR LESS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE CURRENT
UNEMPLOYMENT LEVELS FROM THE
FIRST QUARTER OF THIS YEAR,
YOUNG PEOPLE BETWEEN THE AGES OF
18 AND 35 WITH A HIGH SCHOOL
DIPLOMA OR LESS HAVE
UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES AS HIGH AS
30%.
THAT'S FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICANS IT'S ABOVE
30%.
FOR HISPANICS THAT ARE IN THAT
AGE GROUP.
AND THESE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE
ACTIVELY LOOKING FOR JOBS.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR NYE, WHEN
WE LOOK BACK AT OTHER PERIODS IN
OUR HISTORY -- THE 1808s, THE
EARLY YEARS OF THE 20th
CENTURY -- THERE WERE
LOW-SKILLED AND LOW-PAID WORKERS
WHO VIEWED THE ARRIVAL OF YET
MORE WITH GREAT ALARM, WEREN'T
THERE?
>> WELL, THAT IS ALWAYS THE
CASE.
THE PEOPLE WHO GOT HERE TEN
MINUTES AGO ARE NERVOUS ABOUT
THE PEOPLE WHO GOT HERE TWO
MINUTES AGO.
SO THIS THE TRUE.
THAT IS A PATTERN.
LET ME JUST SAY THAT THE LEVEL
OF IMMIGRATION RECENTLY IS
ACTUALLY IN TERMS OF ABSOLUTE
NUMBERS AND AS PERCENTAGE OF THE
TOTAL POPULATION, IT'S NOT
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE THAN IT WAS
100 YEARS AGO.
IN THE DECADE BEFORE WORLD WAR
I, YOU HAD A MILLION PEOPLE COME
INTO THE UNITED STATES A YEAR.
MOST OF THEM UNSKILLED WORKERS.
IMMIGRATION TODAY IS ABOUT A
MILLION A YEAR.
BUT WE HAVE...
>> BUT...
PEOPLE... EXCUSE ME.
COULD I FINISH.
>> Suarez: PLEASE DO.
BUT AS A PROPORTION OF THE
POPULATION, IT'S STILL ACTUALLY
ABOUT THE SAME OR A LITTLE
LOWER.
BUT THE OTHER POINT I WANT TO
MAKE IS THAT THERE IS
UNEMPLOYMENT TODAY.
THERE ARE MANY NATIVE-BORN
WORKERS AND PEOPLE OF IMMIGRANT
BACKGROUND WHO ARE STRUGGLING
ECONOMICALLY.
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY THE CASE.
THE CAUSE OF THAT IS NOT
IMMIGRATION THOUGH.
THE CAUSE OF THAT IS A
RESTRUCTURING THAT WE'VE HAD OF
THE ECONOMY, SOME PEOPLE CALL IT
GLOBALIZATION, A VAST INCREASE
IN THE DISPARITY BETWEEN THE
VERY RICH AND THE VERY POOR.
THOSE ARE THE CAUSES FOR
ECONOMIC STRESS NOT IMMIGRATION.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR SWAIN, GO
AHEAD.
>> I DISAGREE BECAUSE THE
INDIVIDUALS THAT I MENTIONED
THAT ARE IN THAT AGE GROUP FROM
18 TO 35, PEOPLE THAT
ARE COMPETING IN THE SAME LABOR
MARKET AS MANY OF THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE UNDOCUMENTED.
CERTAINLY THERE'S BEEN SOME DATA
TO SUGGEST THAT 75% OF THE
ESTIMATED 11 TO 12 MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED PERSONS, THEY HAVE
A HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION OR LESS.
THEY WILL TAKE JOBS AND THEY
WILL BE COMPETING FOR THE SAME
JOBS AS AMERICAN CITIZENS.
IT'S NOT JUST BLACKS THAT ARE
HURTING.
BLACK MEN ARE HURT THE MOST.
BUT HISPANICS ARE HURT.
POOR WHITES ARE HURT.
I BELIEVE THAT AMERICA NEEDS TO
FOCUS ON DEVELOPING ITS OWN
HUMAN CAPITAL UNDER THE NEW
IMMIGRATION BEING PUSHED BY THE
GANG OF EIGHT IT WOULD NOT ONLY
LEGALIZE THE 11 TO 12 MILLION
AND BRING THEM OPENLY INTO THE
LABOR MARKET, BUT THEY COULD
ALSO BRING IN THEIR RELATIVES
THAT ARE LOW SKILLED AND SO
WHATEVER THE NUMBERS ARE COMING
NOW LEGALLY, THERE'S GOING TO BE
AN EXPLOSION.
>> Suarez: IT'S LIKE... IS IT
LIKE THAT IF FAMILY
REUNIFICATION NUMBERS ARE
COUNTED IN WITH THOSE OF THE
LEGAL IMMIGRANTS, WE'RE ACTUALLY
LOOKING AT AN AWFUL LOT OF
PEOPLE.
IF YOU'RE A LOW-EDUCATED,
LOW-SKILLED WORKER IT'S LIKELY
THAT YOUR FAMILY MEMBERS COMING
IN ARE NOT A LOT DIFFERENT
SOCIOECONOMICALLY FROM WHAT YOU
THE  IMMIGRANT ARE.
>> WELL, THAT'S TRUE.
BUT I WANT TO ADDRESS THIS POINT
ABOUT OUR OWN HUMAN CAPITAL IN
THE UNITED STATES AND, YOU KNOW,
IF YOU LOOK AT THE NUMBERS IN
THE AGGREGATE YOU MIGHT COME TO
A CONCLUSION LIKE PROFESSOR
SWAIN'S BUT I THINK YOU HAVE TO
LOOK AT LABOR MARKETS IN A LOCAL
WAY.
YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT A LOT OF
FACTORS THAT GO INTO HOW THE
LABOR MARKET IS SEGMENTED AND IT
OFTEN IS SEGMENTED BY RACE OR BY
ETHNICITY.
FOR EXAMPLE, YOU HAVE HIGH
UNEMPLOYMENT ESPECIALLY AMONG
AFRICAN-AMERICANS IN PARTS OF
THE SOUTH WHERE YOU HAVE VERY,
VERY LITTLE IMMIGRATION.
SO YOU CAN'T REALLY SAY
IMMIGRANTS ARE COMPETING FOR
JOBS WITH BLACK PEOPLE IN THOSE
AREAS.
>> THAT'S NOT TRUE.
YOU HAVE CERTAIN
INDUSTRIES... EXCUSE ME.
I DIDN'T INTERRUPT YOU.
SO I WOULD APPRECIATE IF YOU
DIDN'T INTERRUPT ME, OKAY.
YOU ALSO HAVE INDUSTRIES WHERE
YOU HAVE VERY DIFFERENT OUTCOMES
IN SIMILAR INDUSTRIES.
FOR EXAMPLE IN THE
BUILDING/CLEANING SERVICES
INDUSTRY.
IN LOS ANGELES THAT INDUSTRY
BROKE THE UNION AND STARTED TO
BRING IN SUBCONTRACTORS WHICH
DID USE IMMIGRANTS.
MANY OF THEM UNDOCUMENTED.
AND THAT DID LEAD TO A LOSS OF
JOBS AMONG AFRICAN-AMERICANS.
BUT IN NEW YORK CITY WHERE THE
BUILDING-SERVICES -- THESE ARE
JANITORS AND PEOPLE WHO CLEAN
OFFICE BUILDINGS AND APARTMENT
BUILDINGS, WHERE THAT UNION
REMAINS VERY STRONG YOU HAVE A
DIVERSE WORK FORCE THAT INCLUDES
AFRICAN-AMERICANS, HISPANICS,
AND IMMIGRANTS, ET CETERA.
SO I THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF
FACTORS THAT GO INTO WHY SOME
GROUPS STRUGGLE IN THE LABOR
MARKET AND OTHERS STRUGGLE LESS
SO.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S TOO PAT
AN ANSWER TO SAY THAT
IMMIGRATION IS THE PROBLEM.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR SWAIN, YOUR
RESPONSE AND VERY QUICKLY PLEASE
BECAUSE WE'RE ALMOST OUT OF
TIME.
BUT WHAT ABOUT PROFESSOR NYE'S
ASSERTION THAT THESE ARE NOT
WORKERS WHO ARE DIRECTLY
COMPETING AGAINST EACH OTHER IN
A LOT OF CASES.
>> WHAT SHE SAID IS THAT
IMMIGRATION IS NOT A PROBLEM IN
THE SOUTH.
IT'S A NATIONAL PROBLEM.
IT'S A PROBLEM IN GEORGIA.
IT'S A PROBLEM IN TENNESSEE.
SOUTH CAROLINA.
AFRICAN-AMERICANS HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED.
THERE'S PLENTY OF DATA TO
SUGGEST THAT, BUT IT'S ALSO POOR
WHITES AND HISPANICS.
I THINK THAT'S THE ISSUE.
WITH THE NEW IMMIGRATION BILL,
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH ATTENTION
BEING PAID TO THE POPULATIONS
THAT ARE MOST VULNERABLE IN THE
U.S.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR SWAIN,
PROFESSOR NYE, LADIES, THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING US, RAY.
.
Brown: NOW A SPECIAL EFFORT
TO HONOR THO WHOSE HAVE SERVED
IN THE NATION'S WARS.
WORLD WAR 2 VETERANS FROM
ARIZONA PREPARING TO TAKE A
FLIGHT.
THIS IS AN "HONOR FLIGHT,"
PART OF AN EIGHT-YEAR-OLD NON-
PROFIT PROGRAM FOR VETS WHO'VE
NEVER HAD THE CHANCE BEFORE TO
GO TO WASHINGTON TO SEE THE
MEMORIALS, PARTICULARLY THE ONE
HONORING THEIR SERVICE.
UPON LANDING IN BALTIMORE,
THEY MET A LARGE CROWD OF WELL-
WISHERS, OFFERING A HERO'S
WELCOME.
THIS GROUP-- 30 MEN IN THEIR
80s AND 90s-- IS ONE OF 370
VISITING THE NATION'S CAPITOL
THIS YEAR ALONE.
85-YEAR-OLD MARVIN MURPHY LIVES
IN APACHE JUNCTION, ARIZONA,
EAST OF PHOENIX.
>> WE HAD TEARS.
I WAS SPEECHLESS.
THEY DIDN'T PROMISE THIS BEFORE
WE CAME.
I'LL BE FOREVER, FOREVER
GRATEFUL.
IT WAS REALLY SOMETHING...
>> THE NEXT DAY, AT THE WORLD
WAR TWO MEMORIAL, THE TOUR-- AND
THE WELCOME, THIS TIME BY MIDDLE
SCHOOLERS-- CONTINUED.
MORE THAN 800 VETERANS OF THAT
WAR DIE EVERY DAY.
AND THERE'S A QUIET
UNDERSTANDING ON THESE TRIPS
THAT THIS MAY WELL BE A FIRST--
AND LAST-- VISIT.
>> ONE OF THE GREATEST JOYS IS
WHEN YOU LOOK OVER AT THE WWII
MEMORIAL AND YOU SEE IT FILLED
WITH WWII VETERANS.
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.
IT'S THEIR MEMORIAL.
THEY'VE EARNED IT AND THEY NEED
TO SEE IT.
>> Brown: EARL MORSE IS THE
FOUNDER OF HONOR FLIGHT.
HE WORKS AS A PHYSICIAN
ASSISTANT FOR THE V.A. IN
SPRINGFIELD, OHIO.
HE'S ALSO A RETIRED AIR FORCE
CAPTAIN AND  PRIVATE PILOT.
IN 2004 HE FLEW HIS FATHER, A
VIETNAM VETERAN, TO WASHINGTON
ALONG WITH SEVERAL WORLD WAR TWO
VETS HE'D BEEN CARING FOR.
SEEING THEIR REACTION, THE IDEA
WAS BORN.
THE PROGRAM BEGAN WITH SMALL
PRIVATE PLANES FERRYING VETS AND
HAS GROWN EXPONENTIALLY: ON SOME
DAYS FOUR DIFFERENT JETS FLY IN
VETERANS FROM ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
IT'S FUNDED BY DONATIONS--
CORPORATE AND INDIVIDUAL.
>> THEY COME HERE FOR TWO
REASONS: TO SEE HOW THIS NATION
IS GOING TO REMEMBER THEIR
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
REASON TWO IS THEY WANT TO KNOW
HOW THEIR BUDDIES ARE GOING TO
BE REMEMBERED.
>> PART OF THE POWER OF THE
EXPERIENCE, CLEARLY, IS SHARING
IT WITH OTHER VETS-- THE COMMON
BOND THAT EXISTS EVEN WHEN
THEY'RE MEETING FOR THE FIRST
TIME.
87 YEAR-OLD BILL CASTO-- WHO
ENLISTED ON HIS 17TH BIRTHDAY--
SERVED IN THE NAVY IN THE
NORTHERN SOLOMON ISLAND CAMPAIGN
AND WAS INJURED ON HIS P.T.
BOAT.
I ASKED WHAT HE REMEMBERS MOST
FROM THAT TIME.
>> WELL, A LOT OF FEAR FOR ONE
THING.
>> FEAR?
>> MOST BECAUSE OF THE UNKNOWN.
ONCE YOU GOT A LITTLE EXPERIENCE
YOU HAD LESS FEAR OF CERTAIN
TH B
I WAS SCARED TO DEATH.
I REMEMBER I USED TO HAVE THE
FEAR OF STANDING GUARD DUTY AT
NIGHT IN THE JUNGLE BECAUSE I
COULD JUST IMAGINE SOME JAPANESE
SNEAKING UP BEHIND ME AND
CUTTING MY THROAT.
>> Brown: CASTO WENT ON TO SERVE
IN KOREA, VIETNAM-- HIS SON
SERVED THERE AS WELL-- AND LATER
IN THE MERCHANT MARINE DURING
THE FIRST GULF WAR.
HENKT MEMBERS OF HIS
GENERATION-- THE SO-CALLED
"GREATESGENET RATION"-- OFTEN
EXPERIENCED PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED
WITH LATER CONFLICTS.
>> I WAS TOO OLD TO GO BACK TO
HIGH SCHOOL SO I TOOK HIGH
SCHOOL COURSES AT A VOCATIONAL
SCHOOL AND I GOT MY DIPLOMA BUT
I KEPT HAVING PROBLEMS WHAT THEY
CALL NOW POST TRAUMATIC STRESS.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT WAS BUT I
DIDN'T KNOW WHERE I BELONGED OR
HOW I FIT IN AND I WAS REALLY
GETTING CONCERNED ABOUT IT.
>> Brown: IT WAS HARD TO GET
BACK?
>> OH YEAH, IT WAS HARD FOR ME
TO ADJUST.
>> Brown: MARVIN MURPHY ENLISTED
DAYS BEFORE HIS 18TH BIRTHDAY.
HE, TOO, SERVED IN THE NAVY AND
PARTICIPATED IN THE ATOMIC BOMB
TESTS AT THE BIKINI ATOLL JUST
AFTER THE WAR.
>> IT WAS YOUR DUTY, OR IT WAS
YOUR COUNTRY, AND YOU DON'T LET
SOMEBODY JUST RUN ALL OVER YOU
IF YOU CAN STOP IT.
AND SO WE DECIDED TO STOP IT.
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU FEEL AFTER
ALL THESE YEARS SEEING THE
MEMORIAL?
>> AWESOME.
>> ON THIS DAY, THE VETERANS
TALKED WITH THE YOUNG STUDENTS.
AND, TOGETHER, OBSERVED A WREATH
LAYING IN HONOR OF THOSE WHO
GAVE THEIR LIVES.
WHEN WE SAW YOU WITH THE YOUNG
PEOPLE HERE A LITTLE EARLIER,
WHAT DO YOU WANT THEM TO KNOW?
>> WELL, I THINK NOT THE
SACRIFICE THAT WE MADE BUT I
THINK THEY NEED TO REALIZE THAT
IF AND WHEN THE TIME COMES IF
THEY HAVE TO DO THAT, IT SHOULD
BE THEIR DUTY TO DO IT.
THEY SHOULD WANT TO DO IT.
ED Brown: THE MEN ALSO VISIT
OTHER SITES, INCLUDING THE NAVAL
MEMORIAL, ARLINGTON NATIONAL
CEMETERY...
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE.
>> Brown: WHERE THEY OBSERVED
THE CHANGING OF THE GUARD...
AND THE IWO JIMA MEMORIAL...
IT WAS ALSO CLEAR THAT AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THIS
EXPERIENCE WAS FOR FAMILY
MEMBERS OF THE AGING VETERANS
LIKE TRUDY MILLER.
>> WE'LL NEVER FORGET THIS TRIP,
WILL WE?
VERY SPECIAL.
>> Brown:AND THEN THERE WAS A
SMILING SARAH KERSH, WHO
HAPPENED UPON  ANOTHER  GROUP OF
HONOR FLIGHT VETERANS AT THE
AIRPORT AND SOUGHT US OUT TO
TALK ABOUT HER GRANDFATHER,
MAJOR GEORGE ELBERT DOUGLAS,
WHO'D MADE THE TRIP IN 2012.
>> I HAVE THE TAGS OF  MY
GRANDFATHER'S HONOR FLIGHT ON MY
SUITCASE AND HE WENT ON THE
HONOR FLIGHTND W AENT HOME AND
DIED THREE DAYS LATER.
HE LOVED HIS EXPERIENCE AND HE
SAID IT WAS THE HAPPIEST TIME OF
HIS LIFE.
HE LOVED HIS WWII BUDDIES BUT
DIDN'T TALK ABOUT THE WAR AT ALL
WHEN I WAS A CHILD UNTIL I
STARTED ASKING HIM QUESTIONS.
AND BY THE TIME I WAS A YOUNG
ADULT, HE HAD COLLECTED A WHOLE
BUNCH OF MEMORABILIA AND BOOKS
AND WANTED THE WORLD TO KNOW
WHAT THEY HAD LIVED THROUGH AND
WHAT THEY HAD DONE.
>> TO DATE, "HONOR FLIGHT" HAS
BROUGHT SOME 100,000 VETERANS TO
WASHINGTON-- THE OLDEST WAS 108.
TOP PRIORITY GOES TO WORLD WAR
II VETERANS AND TERMINALLY-ILL
VETS OF ANY CONFLICT.
BUT DEMAND IS GREAT; SOME 20,000
MEN AND WOMEN ARE ON A WAITING
LIST.
>> WHEN YOU TELL A VETERAN, "I'M
SORRY, WE DON'T HAVE THE FUNDS
RIGHT NOW BUT WE SHOULD GET YOU
NEXT YEAR," THE RESPONSE IS
USUALLY, "I HOPE I'M STILL ALIVE
NEXT YEAR."
>> Brown: AS OF NOW, 41 STATES
HAVE HONOR FLIGHT GROUPS.
THE HOPE IS THAT NUMBER-- AND
THE NUMBER OF VISITS-- WILL
CONTINUE TO GROW.
ONLINE YOU CAN WATCH AN EXTENDED
INTERVIEW WITH 85-YEAR-OLD
MARVIN MURPHY ABOUT HIS
EXPERIENCE IN WORLD WAR II.
>> Ifill: NOW A LOOK AT THE
TIME-HONORED BUT SEEMINGLY MORE
FREQUENT ROLE OF PRESIDENT AS
CONSOLER-IN-CHIEF.
>> AMERICA TODAY IS ONEE IN PRAE
WHOSE LIVES WERE LOST HERE.
>> Ifill: THEY ARE THE
INCREASINGLY FAMILIAR MOMENTS OF
SEERING LOSS WHEN PRESIDENTS
GIVE VOICE TO THE NATION'S
GRIEF.
>> I CAN HEAR YOU.
THE REST OF THE WORLD HEARS YOU.
AND THE PEOPLE...
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
AND THE PEOPLE WHO KNOCKED THESE
BUILDINGS DOWN WILL HEAR ALL OF
US SOON.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> Ifill: THREE DAYS AFTER 9/11
PRESIDENT GEORGE. BU WSH STOOD
ON THE RUBBLE AT GROUND ZERO IN
NEW YORK.
SIX YEARS EARLIER IN APRIL 1995,
PRESIDENT CLINTON COMFORTED
MOURNERS IN OKLAHOMA CITY AFTER
186 PEOPLE DIED IN THE BOMBING
OF THE ALFRED P. MURROW FEDERAL
BUILDING.
>> WE PLEDGE TO DO ALL WE CAN TO
HELP YOU HEAL THE INJURED, TO
REBUILD THIS CITY, AND TO BRING
TO JUSTICE THOSE WHO DID THIS
EVIL.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENTS ACT AS
STAND-INS FOR A NATION'S AND
DISTINGUISH.
IN JANUARY 1986 HOURS AFTER THE
DESTRUCTION OF SPACE SHUTTLE
CHALLENGER, IT FELL TO PRESIDENT
REAGAN TO REMEMBER THE SEVEN
ASTRONAUTS KILLED THAT DAY.
>> WE WILL NEVER FORGET THEM,
NOR THE LAST TIME WE SAW THEM:
THIS MORNING AS THEY PREPARED
FOR THEIR JOURNEY AND WAVED
GOOD-BYE.
AND SLIPPED THE SURLY BONDS OF
EARTH TO SUCH THE FACE OF GOD.
>> Ifill: AND FIVE DAYS AFTER
PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS
ASSASSINATED IN NOVEMBER 1963,
THE NEWLY ELEVATED PRESIDENT
LYNDON JOHNSON WENT BEFORE A
SHAKEN CONGRESS AND COUNTRY.
>> NO WORDS ARE STRONG ENOUGH TO
EXPRESS OUR DETERMINATION TO
CONTINUE THE FORWARD THRUST OF
AMERICA THAT HE BEGAN.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Ifill: YESTERDAY PRESIDENT
OBAMA RETURNED TO THE TASK.
TRAVELING TO MOORE, OKLAHOMA,
WHERE 24 PEOPLE DIED A WEEK AGO
IN A MASSIVE TORNADO.
>> WE KNOW MOORE IS GOING TO
COME BACK STRONGER FROM THIS
TRAGEDY.
I WANT FOLKS AFFECTED THROUGHOUT
OKLAHOMA TO KNOW THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE WITH YOU EVERY STEP
OF THE WAY.
>> Ifill: FOR MR. OBAMA, IT WAS
ONLY THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
SOMBER OCCASIONS THAT HAVE TAKEN
HIM FROM COLORADO TO ARIZONA TO
NEW JERSEY TO BOSTON.
SO WHAT CAN PRESIDENTIAL WORDS
OF COMFORT MEAN TO VICTIMS OF
DISASTER, ACCIDENTS AND
TERRORISM?
FOR THAT THEY TURN TO
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN AND
NEWSHOUR REGULAR MICHAEL
BESCHLOSS AND ALEXIS
SIMENDINGER.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
MICHAEL, IS THIS NOW PART OF THE
JOB DESCRIPTION TO BE CONSOLER
IN CHIEF?
>> I THINK IT IS.
IT SURE WASN'T IN THE
CONSTITUTION.
IT'S PRETTY RECENT BECAUSE FOR
MOST OF AMERICAN HISTORY WE
DIDN'T HAVE AIR TRAVEL SO IT WAS
HARD FOR A PRESIDENT TO GET TO A
SCENE OF A DISASTER.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DIDN'T DO
THAT MUCH FOR EMERGENCIES LIKE
THIS.
YOU REALLY DIDN'T HAVE T.V. SO
THIS IS REALLY A CREATION OF
RECENT TIMES
>> Ifill: ALEXIS, THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T HAVE MUCH CHOICE BUT TO
SHOW UP AT THIS POINT.
>> WE ARE SEEING THAT MOST
PRESIDENTS FEEL THAT THEY ARE
NOT JUST WANTING TO BE THERE BUT
THEY'RE ALMOST COMPELLED TO BE
THERE.
THERE'S AN EXPECTATION BY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT HE'S THE
MANAGER.
HE'S THE UNITER.
HE IS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND ALL THE
HELP THAT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
COMING FROM WASHINGTON IN A
WORLD THAT EXPECTS TO BE ALMOST
RISK FREE NOW THAT THERE'S MORE
BEEN ANIES, THERE'S LOTS MORE
INFRATRUCK STEUR INSIDE THE
GOVERNMENT AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY, FOR INSTANCE,
FOR NATURAL DISASTERS AND
CATASTROPHES.
THERE'S AN EXPECTATION IN EVERY
COMMUNITY THAT THE PRESIDENT AND
THE ENTIRE EXECUTIVE BRANCH WITH
CONGRESS WILL MOVE TO RESPOND
>> Ifill: HAS THIS ALWAYS BEEN
TRUE?
>> IT HASN'T.
I LIKE TO THINK ABOUT 1963 A
NUCLEAR SUBMARINE SANK OFF CAPE
COD.
OVER OR 129 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY EVEN THOUGH HE
WAS IN THE NAVY AND THIS WAS HIS
HOME STATE, CAPE COD, BASICALLY
ISSUED A STATEMENT -- YOU'D
NEVER SEE SOMETHING LIKE THAT
NOWADAYS AND L.B.J. AS WE JUST
SAW IN THE TAPED PACKAGE 1967
THE FIRST APOLLO CREW PERISHED
IN THAT HORRIBLE FIRE DOWN AT
CAPE CANAVERAL.
HE DIDN'T SEE THE KIND OF THING
YOU WOULD SEE NOW WITH THE
PRESIDENT GOING DOWN, CONSOLING
FAMILIES.
HE SURE ATTENDEDHE T FUNERAL BUT
NOTHING LIKE YOU SEE TODAY
>> Ifill: WHAT WAS THE TURNING
POINT.
>> REALLY RONALD REAGAN.
PROBAB THELY REASON FOR THAT IS
THAT OFTENTIMES IN THE HISTORY
OF THE PRESIDENCY HE WAS SO GOOD
AT IT.
THE CHALLENGE, WE JUST SAW A
MOMENT AGO.
THAT WAS THE DAY HE WAS SUPPOSED
TO GIVE A STATE OF THE UNION.
A WAS ONLY DIMLY AWARE
OF THE SHUTTLE FLIGHT.
WHEN HE TOLD ABOUT IT, HE ASKED
IS THAT THE ONE WITH THE TEACHER
ON IT?
EVERYONE KNEW THIS HAD A TEACHER
IN SPACE.
SO HE GAVE THAT SPEECH THAT WAS
SO POWERFUL THAT EVENING FROM
THE OVAL OFFICE THAT EVER SINCE
THEN PRESIDENTS ARE EXPECTED TO
DO THAT.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A DOWN SIDE
TO THIS?
IS IT TOO CLOSE TO EXPLOITATION.
FOR INSTANCE IN TEUZ ONWHEN THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE AFTER THE
SHOOTING OF GABRIELLE GIFFORDS
THERE WAS A LITTLE QUESTION
ABOUT WHETHER HE WOULD BE DOING
A RAH-RAH THING FOR GUN CONTROL.
>> I THINK THE IMPRESSION THAT
MOST PRESIDENTS GET VERY QUICKLY
IS IT HAS TO EITHER BE GENUINE
OR IT HAS TOOUND GENUINE.
AND IT HAS TO BE LESS ABOUT THEM
AND MUCH MORE ABOUT THE PEOPLE
THAT THEY'RE SEEING.
AS MICHAEL WAS SAYING,
PRESIDENTS THAT ARE GOOD AT IT
GET ENORMOUS BENEFITS FROM IT
AND EMBRACED BY THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
PRESIDENTS WHO STUMBLE, FOR
INSTANCE, DOING IT, THEY TEACH
PRESIDENTS AFTER THEM LESSONS.
>> ESPECIALLY IF IT LOOKS TOO
POLITICAL.
>> IF IT LOOKS TOO POLITICAL OR
IT LOOKS TOO LATE.
WE'VE SEEN THAT HAPPEN OVER
TIME.
>> Ifill: KATRINA.
KATRINA IS A PERFECT EXAMPLE.
PRESIDENT BUSH WAS, AS WE KNOW,
ABSOLUTELY CLOBBERED BY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE POLITICALLY IN
TERMS OF... AS MANAGEMENT,
EVERYTHING ABOUT KATRINA AND
RITA.
CONGRESS AND THE LAWS CHANGED
AFTER THAT TO ADD A LOT MORE TO
THE WHOLE PROCESS OF MANAGING
CRISES.
>> AND ALSO NO PRESIDENT IS
GOING TO MAKE THAT MISTAKE
AGAIN.
THEY WILL ERR NOW ON THE SIDE OF
GOING TO EVERY
CONCEIVABLE RATHER THAN SUFFER
THE FATE OF GEORGE BUSH WHO
LOOKED AS IF HE WAS A LITTLE BIT
INDIFFERENT
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH OF THIS IS
SYMBOLISM AND HOW MUCH OF IS
THIS ABOUT BRINGING CASH ON THE
BARREL HEAD TO THE PROBLEM?
>> THE SYMBOLISM IS IMPORTANT.
THE FOUNDERS DID SAY THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO BE PRIME
MINISTER AND CHIEF OF STATE.
THAT'S WHAT MONARCHS DO.
BUT IF YOU LOOK THROUGH HISTORY
AND TRY TO DRAW A CORRELATION
BETWEEN LIKE NUMBER OF HOURS A
PRESIDENT VISITS THE SCENE OF A
DISASTER AND AMOUNT OF HELP
THAT'S EFFECTIVE FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT VIRTUALLY NO
CORRELATION.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THAT?
>> I THINK THERE'S A MICK.
FOR ONE THING THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THERE.
IT HAPPENS NOW WITHOUT HIM.
HE COULD BE ABROAD AND ALL OF
THIS WOULD HAPPEN.
>> Ifill: ALL OF WHAT?
ALL OF THE HELP, ALL OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE FROM FEEM,
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ADMINISTRATION, ALL OF THAT
WOULD HAPPEN WITHOUT THE
PRESIDENT EVEN IF HE WERE ABROAD
BUT HE SIGNS THE DECLARATION AND
THOSE WHO HAVE ACTUALLY BEEN
COMFORTED BY A PRESIDENT OR A
FIRST LADY AFTER A CATASTROPHE
HAVE TALKED ABOUT HOW MUCH IT
MEANT.
FOR LOCAL MEDIA WILL LISTEN TO
THE PRESIDENT AND SAY HERE'S
WHERE YOU CALL IF YOU NEED HELP.
AMERICAN RED CROSS HERE'S WHAT
YOU DO IF YOU WANT TO HELP, GIVE
MONEY.
HIS BULLY PULPIT IS SYMBOLISM
BUT ALSO HAS A PRACTICAL IMPACT
TOO.
>> HE COULD LEARN FROM IT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS SAID, FOR
INSTANCE, THAT MEETING WITH
THOSE VICTIMS TAUGHT HIM A LOT,
MADE HIM FEEL MORE PASSIONATE
ABOUT TRYING TO ASSURE GUN
SAFETY
>> Ifill: IS IT ALSO ONE OF
THOSE RARE CASES WHERE
GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IS NOW
WELCOMED RATHER THAN STAY OUT OF
MY BUSINESS?
>> WELL, IN THIS PARTICULAR
ENVIRONMENT THIS MONTH, DOES THE
PRESIDENT WANT TO TALK ABOUT HOW
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNMENT IS A
GOOD THING?
ABSOLUTELY.
AFTER THE I.R.S. PROBLEMS THAT
HE'S BEEN EXPERIENCING, HE WANTS
TO SPREAD THE WORLD THAT
GOVERNMENT DOES GOOD THINGS
WHICH IS WHAT HE'S TALKING ABOUT
AND THAT MANAGEMENT IS IN THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH IS TOP NOTCH AT
FEMA.
>> Ifill: MICHAEL.
CAN'T DISAGREE WITH THAT.
YOU KNOW, LYNDON JOHNSON EVEN AT
THE MOMENT OF JOHN KENNEDY'S
ASSASSINATION, YOU WOULD THINK
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE MOST
HORRIBLE THING FOR HIM TO TURN
INTO POLITICS BUT HE SAID NO
MEMORIAL ORATION COULD MORE
ELOQUENTLY HONOR JOHN KENNEDY'S
MEMORY THAN THE EARLIEST
POSSIBLE PASSAGE OF HIS CIVIL
RIGHTS BILL.
PEOPLE THOUGHT IT WAS VERY
APPROPRIATE EVEN IF YOU'RE CHRIS
CHRISTIE OR MARY FALLON, I'M
BEING CRASS, TALKING ABOUT THE
POLITICS, IT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
HURT YOU.
>> IT DOESN'T HURT YOU AT ALL.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS.
THEY ARE MORE THAN THEAP TO SEE
WASHINGTON REPRESENTED BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
COME TO THEIR COMMUNITIES.
>> Ifill: ALEXIS AND MICHAEL,
THANK YOU BOTH SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN
Ifill: ON THE RUNDOWN YOU CAN
SEE MORE VIDEO OF MR. OBAMA AND
OTHER PRESIDENTS REACHING OUT TO
COMMUNITIES IN TIMES OF TROUBLE.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT WE
SPEND A LOT OF TIME CHRONICLING
THE HITS AND MISSES ON CAPITOL
HILL.
AUTHOR AND JOURNALIST ROBERT
KAISER WRITES ABOUT A LITTLE OF
BOTH FOCUSING ON HOW LAWMAKERS
RESHAPED WALL STREET REGULATIONS
AFTER THE 2008 FINANCIAL CRISIS.
JUDY WOOD ROUGH SPOKE TO KAISER
ABOUT HIS NEW BOOK: ACT OF
CONGRESS, HOW AMERICA'S
ESSENTIAL INSTITUTION WORKS AND
HOW IT DOESN'T.
>> Woodruff: BOB KAISER, WELCOME
TO THE NEWSHOUR.
THE BOOK, AS WE SAY, IS ACT OF
CONGRESS.
AND YOU ARE VERY CRITICAL OF
CONGRESS IN THIS BOOK.
YOU WRITE ABOUT THE PRINCIPAL
PREOCCUPATION IS POLITICS
INSTEAD OF LEGISLATING, THAT
MEMBERS ARE SKILLED AT POLITICS
BUT NOT AT ENACTING LAWS AND YET
THEY WERE ABLE TO PASS THIS BIG
PIECE OF LEGISLATION.
>> THANKS TO TWO VERY TALENTED
CHAIRMEN, BARNEY FRANK AND CHRIS
DODD.
THEY REALLY KNEW HOW TO MAKE THE
SYSTEM HUM AND THEY DID IT.
BUT IT WAS UPSETTING TO ME AS A
CITIZEN TO REALIZE HOW FEW
MEMBERS UNDERSTOOD THE ISSUES
THEY WERE DEALING WITH.
THESE ARE OF COURSE EXTREMELY
COMPLICATED FINANCIAL MATTERS.
HOW BANKS WORK, HOW THEY'RE
REGULATED, SO ON.
NOT EVERYBODY CAN KNOW THIS BUT
AT THE END I CONCLUDED THAT YOU
COULD FIT THE NUMBER OF EX-PERS
IN ISSUES
EASILY ON TO THE ROSTER OF A
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL TEAM.
THAT'S 25 PEOPLE.
I THINK THAT IS THE MAX.
>> Woodruff: IS WHAT YOU WRITE
ABOUT IN THE BOOK ABOUT THE
PASSAGE OF THE DODD FRANK LAW
TYPICAL OF THE WAY CONGRESS
WORKS OR WAS THIS UNUSUAL?
>> IT'S UNUSUAL IN RECENT TIMES
BECAUSE IT WAS A SUCCESS.
MOST OF THE TIME NOW WE DON'T
GET ANYTHING.
WE GET DEAD LOCKED.
BUT I THINK... MY HOPE IS THAT
THIS IS A REAL WINDOW ON THE
CULTURE OF THE CONGRESS.
WHICH SHOWS LOTS OF THINGS ABOUT
IF IT WILL REMAIN RELEVANT
REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE BILL IS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS IT?
CLEARLY SO MUCH OF THE BOOK YOU
FOCUS ON THE PRINCIPAL SPONSORS,
THE FORMER SENATOR CHRIS DODD,
FORMER REPRESENTATIVE BARNEY
FRANK.
WHAT WA ITS ABOUT THEM THAT MADE
THIS HAPPEN?
>> WELL, BARNY... ANY MEMBER OF
THE HOUSE WILL TELL YOU BARNY
WAS THE SMARTEST MEMBER OF THE
HOUSE.
REPUBLICANS AGREED ABOUT THAT
TOO.
HE WAS REALLY SHARP.
HE REALLY MASTERED MOST OF THESE
ISSUES.
IN THE BEGINNING I THOUGHT THAT
WAS THE KEY FACT.
ULTIMATELY I REALIZED DODD'S
POLITICAL SKILL, HIS ABILITY TO
DEAL CREATIVELY WITH HIS
COLLEAGUES, TO WIN THE THREE
REPUBLICAN VOTES WHICH HE DID
GET WHICH WERE CRUCIAL IN THE
END TO THE SUCCESS OF THE ENTER
PRIZE WAS JUST AS IMPORTANT, IF
NOT MORE IMPORTANT THAN BARNY'S
BRAIN POWER BUT THEY WERE VERY
COMPLEMENTARY THESE TWO TALENTS
>> Woodruff: YOU ALSO SPEND A
LOT OF TIME WRITING ABOUT THAT
PART OF CONGRESS THAT WE DON'T
REALLY SEE MOST OF THE TIME.
THAT'S THE STAFF.
AND SOME REALLY KEY FIGURES ON
THE STAFF.
>> YOU KNOW, TEDDY KENNEDY WROTE
A GOOD MEMOIR JUST BEFORE HE
DIED IN WHICH HE REVEALED THE
FOLLOWING STATE SECRET.
HE SAID 95% OF THE NITTY-GRITTY
WORK ON LEGISLATION IS NOW DONE
BY THE STAFF.
AS KENNEDY WROTE, THIS
REPRESENTS QUITE A CHANGE IN THE
ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
OVER THE LAST 30 OR 40 YEARS.
INDEED IT DOES.
BUT THIS IS THE POINT.
THE STAFF REALLY DOES THE WORK.
INDEED IN THIS CASE, IT SEEMED
TO ME AT THE END 95% MIGHT
UNDERSTATE THE AMOUNT OF THE
WORK THAT THE STAFF DID.
AND PARTICULARLY TWO WONDERFUL
WOMEN: AMY FRIEND, THE COUNSEL
OF THE SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE
AND JEAN WHO WAS BARNY'S CHIEF
OF STAFF A HOUSE FINANCIAL
SERVICES, FRIENDS OF EACH OTHER.
BOTH VERY SMART LAWYERS.
BOTH LONG-TIME HILL AIDES.
THEY MADE THIS THING HAPPEN AS
MUCH AS ANYBODY.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE THEY NOT
ONLY HAD TO KNOW THE SUBSTANCE.
THEY HAD TO UNDERSTAND AND WORK
WITH THE POLITICS AS WELL.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY REALLY WERE MORE
INFLUENTIAL IN THE END, I THINK,
I WRITE, THAN ANY MEMBER OF THE
SENATE EXCEPT FRANK AND DODD.
>> Woodruff: IF IT WAS DODD AND
FRANK AND STAFF AND YOU WRITE
ABOUT SOME OTHER ELEMENTS THAT
MADE THIS LEGISLATION POSSIBLE,
WHAT STOOD IN THE WAY?
WHAT WERE THE PRINCIPLE
OBSTACLES TO MAKING THIS HAPPEN?
>> WELL, I THINK THE BIGGEST
OBSTACLE IS THE ONE WE REVERT
TO.
IT'S THAT THERE ARE SO FEW
EXPERTS.
THERE WAS WIDESPREAD AGREEMENT
AMONG EXPERTS IN ALL PARTIES
OUTSIDE OF CONGRESS THAT
SOMETHING BIG OUGHT TO BE DONE
AFTER THE CATASTROPHE OF 2008.
BUT IN CONGRESS, THE USUAL
POLITICAL REFLEXES TOOK OVER.
SO THAT, FOR EXAMPLE, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS AGAINST GOVERNMENT
REGULATION ON PRINCIPLE, VERY
ANTSY ABOUT THE NEW OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, THEIR NATURAL
TENDENCY WAS JUST TO SAY NO WE
DON'T WANT TO DO THIS.
IN THE SENATE, THERE WAS MORE
REPUBLICAN INTEREST BUT AS IT
TURNED OUT THERE TOO RICHARD
SHELBY THE RANKING REPUBLICAN I
THINK REALLY WANTED TO MAKE A
DEAL BUT ULTIMATELY HIS
COLLEAGUES WOULDN'T LET HIM DO
IT.
SO THE IDEA OF A BIPARTISAN
ENTER PRIZE COLLAPSED COMPLETELY
>> Woodruff: SO IT WAS
PARTISANSHIP, YOU'RE SAYING, AS
MUCH AS LACK OF EXPERTISE.
>> PARTISANSHIP AND IDEOLOGY
BOTH, BUT, YES
>> Woodruff: JUST A BELIEF THAT
THIS WAS THE WRONG WAY TO GO?
YOU'RE SAYING THE OPPOSITION WAS
GENUINE.
>> WELL, IT WAS THE BELIEF THAT
IT WAS THE WRONG WAY TO GO HELD
BY PEOPLE WHO DIDN'T UNDERSTAND
THE SITUATION.
I'M NOT SURE WHETHER GENUINE IS
A GOOD WORD TO USE OR NOT.
THEY'RE WELL MEANING.
THEY THINK THAT THEY'RE RIGHT.
I DON'T AGREE THAT THEY WERE
RIGHT.
BUT THIS IS ONE OF THE GREAT
PROBLEMS WE HAVE NOW.
YOU DON'T REALLY ENGAGE ON
ISSUES IN THIS CONGRESS.
WHAT YOU ENGAGE IN IS POLITICAL
WARFARE.
PARTISAN BASHING, ONE OR THE
RESULT.
THE RESULT IS THAT SERIOUS
POLICY ISSUES AS WE'VE SEEN
AGAIN AND AGAIN GET VERY
>> Woodruff: AND YOUR WRITING
ABOUT IT HELPS US UNDERSTAND
MORE ABOUT HOW THE INSTITUTION
WORKS.
BOB KAISER, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
Ifill: AGAINST THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE TRADITIONS OF MEMORIAL DAY
PLAYED OUT AT MUSEUMS AND
MONUMENTS, PARADES AND PICNICS
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA URGEDDED
AMERICANS TO REMEMBER THOSE WHO
STILL FIGHT AND SACRIFICE ALL.
AND CAR BOMBING SWEPT THROUGH
BAGHDAD KILLING AT LEAST 66
PEOPLE IN IRAQ'S LATEST WAVE OF
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE.
>> Brown: WE HAVE MORE TIPS ON
GETTING THE MOST OUT OF SOCIAL
SECURITY ON OUR WEBSITE.
HARI FILLS US IN.
>> WE CLARIFY THE COMPLEXITIES
OF SOCIAL SECURITY ON OUR MAKING
SENSE PAGE.
HIS LATEST WARNS AGAINST THE
PERILS OF COLLECTING YOUR BEEN
ANIES TOO EARLY.
A FORMER SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE
ROMNEY CAMPAIGN OFFERS HIS TAKE
ON A MISSED OPPORTUNITY TO TURN
THE COURSE OF THE ELECTION FIND
THAT CONVERSATION ON THE
POLITICS PAGE.
TONIGHT ON MOST PBS STATIONS,
CAN THE MOTOR CITY RISE FROM ITS
ASHES?
ON INDEPENDENT LENS IT TELLS THE
DRAMATIC STORY OF DETROIT
RESIDENTS WHO REFUSED TO GIVE UP
ON THEIR HOMETOWN.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS FOR
THE TIME.
ALL THAT AND MORE ON OUR WEB
SIGHT, "NEWSHOUR DOT PBS DOT ORG
>> Ifill: ON TUESDAY WE'LL
EXAMINE THE LATEST FORENSIC
SCIENCE USED TO PIECE TOGETHER
BLASTS LIKE THE BOSTON BOMBINGS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M GEOFFREY
BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.